---
layout: posts
title:  "Omurice オムライス"
date:   2021-07-01 09:12:00 -0400
published: true
categories: rice quick simpl
author: Hanneli Tavante
---

This reciPL is perfect if you have leftovers.

### Ingredients

* 250g cooked rice 
* 2 garlic cloves
* 1/4 onion
* 150g tomato sauce (don't use concentrate)
* 50ml vegetables broth
* Olive oil, salt and pepper
* 130g chicken (Optional, use None for a vegetarian meal). We already have a tasty [reciPL for chicken]({% post_url 2021-06-17-chickenbreastind %}) in this site, if you have leftovers, it will be the perfect time for using them!
* 4 eggs
* 2 teaspoon heavy cream (35%)
* Parsley
* 1 bay leaf
* Ketchup (we'll discuss the admissibility of this rule later)

### Preparation

We won't show you how to make rice in this reciPL - but here are some hints: you can use any type of rice here. It is expected that you use a short grain rice (mostly the ones that will be sticky), but in this case, you can adapt the reciPL. I normally use long grain rice, and I prepare it with sesame oil. We also assume that, if you are adding chicken, it is already prepared (very convenient assumption for this logical system, I know).

_Bowl1_ : In a bowl, add 2 eggs, mix them up, add 1 teaspoon heavy cream, salt (1 tsp) and pepper. Mix the ingredients, set them aside.

If you are using chicken, chop it in small cubes.

_FryingPan1_ Chop the onion in very tiny cubes; do the same thing with the garlic. Heat a frying pan, add 1 tbsp olive oi, fry the onion and the garlic, until the latter reaches a golden state. If you are using chicken, add it in the pan. Add the tomato sauce and the vegetables broth. Add the bay leaf and parsley. Mix the ingredients, wait 1 or two minutes. Add the rice, mix everything well. 


_FryingPan2_ - Ensure it's a non-sticky pan. Heat it up. When it's very hot, add a few drops of olive oil. Add the two eggs from _Bowl1_, make an omelette. Add half of the rice mix from _FryingPan1_ on top of the middle portion of the omelette. Wrap the omelette around the rice. Cover the frying pan with a large plate and gently turn the pan over the plate. Tada! You have your omurice.

Repeat the step described at _Bowl1_ for the two other eggs, then repeat the step of _FryingPan2_ for the other half of the rice mix.


### Useful Hints

You can replace the heavy cream with butter.

We assume your chicken was seasoned with Ajinomoto (also known as MSG). If you can find this item, put it in the chicken, in case you opt in for the non-vegetarian version of this reciPL. 

### Discussion

Traditionally, you cover the omurice with some ketchup. I am personally not a fan of it.


### Previous work

Random chat: In a trip to Japan, I found out about this reciPL. I remember having a chat with a local group of friends from Kyoto. We mentioned that in North America, it is not very common to eat eggs during lunch (unless it's a brunch) or dinner. But in my home country, in Latin America, it is very common :-) In fact, eggs and rice were a big part of my childhood (not in this particular format of the omurice, tho). These friends asked me to reproduce my modified version of rice and eggs - which can be the subject of another reciPL in this blog.

### Appendix, Types and Artifact

Rebuttal paper from your leftovers.
